# 
# Ajay Kumar
# 1 Oct, 2019
# 
Broad-band teleseismic waveform data from the (a) Australian net-work (76 stations), (b) Japanese network (20 stations) and (c) Eu-ropean network (21 stations) (Fig.2b) have been used to image therupture process of the Gorkha main-shock and the largest (Mw7.3)aftershock, using high-frequency back projection ofP-wave. Thethree networks (referred to as arrays henceforth) chosen for thisanalysis, lie within an epicentral distance range of 30◦–90◦,andprovide a good backazimuthal coverage. The chosen range of epi-central distance is required to avoid waveform complexities at shortdistances from crust and upper mantle heterogeneities and at longdistances from the core-mantle boundary. Additionally, multiplearrays at a range of distances and backazimuths reduces the swim-ming artefacts introduced due to small aperture of a single array andenhances the lateral resolution of the solution (Kiseret al.2011).Vertical component waveform data have been used for our analysis.The data analysis is done following the procedure outlined in Kiser&Ishii(2012). Waveform data is filtered between 0.2 and 5 Hz,to utilize a broad band of frequencies for the study of rupture timehistory of the earthquakes. The low- and high-frequency cornersat 0.2 and 5 Hz, respectively, provide a broader band than all pre-vious studies (Avouacet al.2015; Fan & Shearer2015; Grandinet al.2015; Yagi & Okuwaki2015) and contain information nec-essary to understand the detailed spatiotemporal variation of therupture process. The steps of our analysis are briefly outlined below.



(1) The source region, surrounding the hypocentre is parameter-ized as a horizontal plane with 0.5◦by 0.5◦square grids. The planeis fixed in space at the hypocentral depth.(2) The teleseismicP-wave, from each station within the ar-ray, is windowed 30 s before and 150 s after the theoretical ar-rival time computed using the IASP91 velocity model (Kennett &Engdahl1991).(3) Within a given array, the windowedP-waves are cross-correlated with a reference station (chosen at the centre of the array)to estimate the time shift required to account for the 3-dimensionalvariation in the velocity structure.(4) Each grid point on the parameterized hypocentral plane isassumed as a potential source and the travel time ofP-wave iscalculated, using IASP91 velocity model, to all the stations withinthe array.(5) Waveforms from these stations, adjusted by the respectivetime shifts (computed from cross-correlation), are stacked together,starting from the calculatedP-wave arrival time for a given sourcegrid. During stacking, the waveforms are weighted (i) inverselyby the density of stations within an array and (ii) by the cross-correlation coefficient (obtained above).(6) The weighted stacked energy is then back projected onto thesource grid. This procedure is repeated for all potential source grids,for every array.(7) Information from all the arrays are combined by following aweighting procedure, where the stack from the hypocentral grid iscross-correlated for each array, with respect to a chosen referencearray. In our analysis, we used the Australian network as our refer-ence array, as it has the maximum number of stations with a wideaperture.Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/gji/article-abstract/208/2/992/2556164 by CSIC user on 01 October 2019


(8) For every potential source grid, stacked waveforms from eacharray are adjusted by the estimated time shift and summed by nor-malizing the amplitude.(9) For removing the high-frequency artefacts in the stackedwaveform at each potential source grid, a 10 s moving averagetime window is applied. In order to test the influence of the movingaverage time window on the final result, we performed our analysisfor 5, 10, 15 and 20 s time windows. It was observed that the 10 swindow is optimal in removing unwanted high-frequency artefacts,while preserving the necessary details of the source time function(STF).(10) The final distribution of relative energy released during therupture is contoured on the parameterized hypocentral plane andthe points of maximum energy release at each time sample (i.e.1 s) is highlighted by a circle, whose radius is scaled by the rel-ative amplitude (Fig.2a, Supporting Information Movie S1 andFig. S2). The contour plot of energy is truncated at∼50 per cent ofthe total energy level, to match the scaled fault area estimated fromprevious study (Mitraet al.2015)
